# ATTEND-A.M.S.: Attendance Authentication Management System using Convolutional Neural Network Approach to Facial Recognition
Authors: Andreau O. Aranton and Lei Kristoffer R. Lactuan

Attending class is an essential part of learning. Writing names in an attendance list, passing a piece of paper with names written on it, and roll-calling are some of the methods currently used in checking attendance. However, the said techniques are inefficient and flawed. An approach to address this problem is to use facial recognition technology in managing attendance. Developed using Keras from Tensorflow,  a Convolutional Neural Network approach to facial recognition for classroom attendance management and aimed to provide relevant attendance data to the instructors. A total of thirty five (35) students coming from two laboratory sections were the testers to determine the accuracy, Rank-3 Identification Rate, and Rank-5 Identification Rate of the application in 2 cases: (1) inside the classroom with insufficient lighting and (2) outside the classroom with better lighting environment. The application achieved an accuracy of 70.59%, Rank-3 identification rate of 92.65%, and Rank-5 identification rate of 95.59% outside the classroom, and 54.17%, 75.00%, and 84.72% respectively inside the classroom. Additionally, its barcode scanning feature had a 100% barcode scanning accuracy. These results indicate that the ATTEND-A.M.S. has the potential to be an alternative for attendance tracking.

Keywords: attendance, facial recognition, convolutional neural network
